A *character* is referred to as a Unicode grapheme cluster.
## Comment
A *comment* is a sequence of *characters* starting with `//` and ending at the end of a line.

Example:
```aber
// At the beginning of the line
```
## Whitespace
A *whitespace* is a sequence including only *comments* and the *characters* ` `, ⇥ (Tab) and ↵ (Newline).
## Literal
### Number
A *digit* is a *character* included in the set `0` - `9` or `A` - `Z`. A *base digit* is a *digit* that exists in the specified base. A *decimal digit* is a *base digit* with a base of 10. Unless otherwise specified, the default base is 10. Symbols `0` - `9` are mapped to the number range 0 - 9, and `A` - `Z` to 10 - 25.

A *number* is a sequence starting with the optional character `-`, and following it sequentially: optional sequence B, non-zero sequence N and optional sequence F.

The sequence B begin with a non-zero sequence of *decimal digits* and `_` and end with the symbol `'`. The entire contents of sequence B except for the characters `_` and `'` are the base, written in decimal notation, for sequence N.

The sequence N contains only *base digits* and `_` characters. Its contents, except for the `_` *characters*, are the integer part of a number, written in positional notation.

The sequence F starts with the character `.` followed by a sequence containing only *base digits* and the *characters* `_`. Its contents, except for the *characters* `_` and `'`, are the fractional part of a number, written in positional notation.

**Integer number**

An *integer number* is a *number* that does not contain the sequence F.

Example:
```aber
3_005 // 3005 in decimal
```
```aber
16'FF // Hexadecimal, integer, 255 in decimal
```
```aber
2'01100101 // Binary, integer, 101 in decimal
```

**Floating point number**

A *floating point number* is a *number* that necessarily contains the sequence F.

Examples:
```aber
1.15
```
```aber
3'0.1 // Trinary, 1/3 in decimal
```
```aber
2'10. // Binary, 2 in decimal
```
### Char
A *char* is a sequence beginning and ending with `'` and containing a single *character* or *escape sequence*. If it contains a single *character*, it is content. If it contains an escape sequence, its result is content.

The *escape sequence* begins with the `\` *character* followed by a sequence of *characters*.

For *char* *escape sequences* are mapped to *character* according to the following table: 

| The character after `\` | The result  |
| ----------------------- | ----------- |
| `\`                     | `\`         |
| `n`                     | ↵ (Newline) |
| `t`                     | ⇥ (Tab)     |
### String

**String**

A string is a sequence starting with the *character* `"` and ending with the same *character* that is not part of an *escape sequence*, and contains a sequence of *escape sequences* and *characters* except for `"` and ↵ (Newline). The contents are sequentially standing *characters* and *characters* obtained by substituting *escape sequences*.

For *string* *escape sequences* are mapped to *character* according to the following table: 

| The symbol after `\` | The result  |
| -------------------- | ----------- |
| `"`                  | `"`         |
| `\`                  | `\`         |
| `n`                  | ↵ (Newline) |
| `t`                  | ⇥ (Tab)     |
| ↵ (Newline)          | (Nothing)   |

Any *characters* are allowed except `"` and ↵ (Newline) without `\` to the left of them.

Consecutive *strings* must be split via a non-zero *whitespace*.

Examples:
```aber
"Hello\t\n\"Aber\"!" // Hello	
                     // "Aber"!
```
```aber
"Hello\t\
\n\"Aber\"!" // Same as the first one
```
```aber
"""Hello\t\n\"Aber\"!" // Error
```

**Raw string**

A *raw string* is a sequence starting with number N of *characters* `"` and ↵ (Newline). Each following line starts with the sequence W followed by a sequence С of any *characters*. The last line contains the sequence W followed by N number of *characters* `"`.

The concatenation of all sequences C is the contents of the string.

The number N must be at least 3.

The sequence W must contain only the *characters* ` ` and ⇥ (Tab).

Examples:
```aber
"""
Hello	
"Aber"!
""" // Same as in ordinary strings
```
```aber
"""
	""Aber
""" // "\t\"\"Aber"
```
```aber
"""
		Hello
		Aber!
	""" // "\tHello\n\tAber!"
```

## Expression
An *expression* is a sequence of *syntactic units* separated by *whitespace*.

Examples:
```aber

```
```aber
"hello"
```
```aber
10 "hello" 15.4
```

## Pair
The *pair* is denoted by `:`. It captures one *syntactic unit* on the left.

Example:
```aber
"count": 
```

## Tuple
*Tuples* start with `(` and end with `)`, elements within are separated by `,`. A comma before a closing bracket is optional.

Examples:
```aber
() 
```
```aber
(10)
```
```aber
(42, )
```
```aber
(5, "hello")
```

## Block
*Blocks* start with `{` and end with `}`, *expressions* within are separated by `;`. A semicolon before a closing bracket creates an empty *expression* at the end of the block.

Examples:
```aber
{}
```
```aber
{10}
```
```aber
{42; }
```
```aber
{5; "hello"}
```

## Explicit generic parameters
*Explicit generic parameters* start with `[` and end with `]`, parameters within are separated by `,`. A comma before a closing bracket is optional.

Examples:
```aber
[]
```
```aber
[10]
```
```aber
[42, ]
```
```aber
[5, Type]
```

## Identifier
An *identifier* is a non-zero *character* sequence that conforms to the following rules:
- It must not start with a *decimal digit* or `-`.
- It must not contain sequences `.`, `,`, `;`, `:`, `'`, `"`, `@`, `//`, `(`, `)`, `{`, `}`, `[`, `]`.
- It doesn't have to be `=`.

Examples:
```aber
foo
```
```aber
foo+bar
```
```aber
baz0-foo*$%
```

## Сall
The *call* is considered to be an *identifier*, with *explicit generic parameters* optionally to the right of it.

Examples:
```aber
foo
```
```aber
foo+bar[10]
```

## Method call
A *method call* is indicated by `.` followed by a *call*. It captures the largest *expression* on the left.

Examples:
```aber
foo.foo
```
```aber
bar 10.foo+bar
```
```aber
baz(10, "hello").baz0-foo*$%
```

## Сhild сall
A *сhild call* is indicated by `::` followed by a *call*. It captures the largest *expression* on the left.

Examples:
```aber
foo::foo
```
```aber
bar 10::foo+bar
```
```aber
baz(10, "hello")::baz0-foo*$%
```

## Negative call
The *negative call* is denoted by `@`. It captures the largest *expression* on the right. It has higher precedence than a *method call* or a *child call*.

Examples:
```aber
@foo
```
```aber
@foo.foo
```
```aber
@foo::foo
```

## Assignment
The assignment is denoted by `=`. It captures the largest *expression* to the right and left. It has higher priority than a *method call*, a *child call*, or a *negative call*.

Examples:
```aber
a = foo
```
```aber
a = foo.foo
```
```aber
@bar = foo::foo
```
